docs/ports.md, before:



# Ports and protocols used by TDP

## System

- SSH
  - Port: 22
  - Protocol: SSH
  - External access:
    - All nodes for administrators and deployment scripts
    - Edges nodes for user access to a working pre-configured environment

## HDFS

- NameNode
  - HTTPS service   
    The namenode secure HTTP server address and port. It provides access to the HDFS web UI.
    - Port: 9871
    - Protocol: HTTPS
    - Property: `dfs.namenode.https-address`
    - External access: yes
    - [Source](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
  - RPC service   
    Main RPC port used by client to communicate with HDFS using a binary protocol. The port is embedded in the URI, eg `hdfs://nn1.domain.com:8020/`.
    - Port: 8020
    - Protocol: IPC
    - Property: `dfs.namenode.rpc-address`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources:
      - [HDFS default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
- ZKFC
  - RPC access   
    RPC port used by Zookeeper Failover Controller.
    - Port: 8019
    - Protocol: IPC
    - Property: `dfs.ha.zkfc.port`
    - External access: no
    - Sources:
      - [HDFS default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
- DataNode
  - Secure data transfert   
    The datanode server address and port for data transfer. The value depends on the usage of SASL to authenticate data transfer protocol instead of running the DataNode as root, learn more about [securing the DataNode](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/HADOOP/Secure+DataNode).
    - Port: 9866 (SASL based IPC, non-privileged port) or 1004 (privileged port) 
    - Protocol: IPC
    - Property: `dfs.datanode.address`
    - External access: no
    - Sources:
      - [Privileged port](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-common/SecureMode.html)
      - [Non-privilege port](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
      - [HDFS-9427- not default to ephemeral ports](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HDFS-9427)
  - HTTPS service   
    The datanode secure HTTP server address and port. It is used to access the status, logs, etc, and file data operations when using [WebHDFS](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/WebHDFS.html) or [HttpFS](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-hdfs-httpfs/index.html). The NameNode UI redirects the user to the DataNode server when browsing files.
    - Port: 9865
    - Protocol: HTTPS
    - Property: `dfs.datanode.https.address`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources:
      - [HDFS default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
  - RPC service   
    The DataNode RCP server address and port used for metadata information.
    - Port: 9867
    - Protocol: IPC
    - Property: `dfs.datanode.ipc.address`
    - External access: (requires Apache Knox) 
    - Sources:
      - [HDFS default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
      - [HDFS-9427 - not default to ephemeral ports](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HDFS-9427)
- JournalNode   
  - RPC server
    The JournalNode RPC server address and port.
    - Port: 8485
    - Protocol: IPC
    - Property: `dfs.journalnode.rpc-address`
    - External access: no
    - Sources:
      [HDFS default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
  - HTTPS server   
    The address and port the JournalNode HTTPS server listens on. If the port is 0 then the server will start on a free port.
    - Port: 8481
    - Protocol: HTTPS
    - Property: `dfs.journalnode.https-address`
    - External access: no
    - Sources:
      - [HDFS default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
## YARN

- ResourceManager
  - Ressource tracker   
    This is used by the Node Manager to register/nodeHeartbeat/unregister with the ResourceManager.
    - Port: 8031
    - Protocol: IPC
    - Property: `yarn.resourcemanager.resource-tracker.address`
    - External access: no
    - Sources:
      - [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
  - RPC server   
    The address of the applications manager interface in the RM. It is used to submit jobs. In YARN non HA configuration `yarn.resourcemanager.address` uses port 8050. In YARN HA configuration, `yarn.resourcemanager.address` is redundant and instead `yarn.resourcemanager.address.{id}` is resolved and uses port 8032.
    - Port: 8032
    - Protocol: IPC
    - Property: `yarn.resourcemanager.address.{id}`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources:
      - [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
      - [YARN HA port](https://community.cloudera.com/t5/Support-Questions/What-is-the-default-Yarn-resource-manager-port-Is-it-8032-or/td-p/138143)
  - HTTPS server   
    The HTTPS adddress of the RM web UI application. It is used to monitor applications.
    - Port: 8090
    - Protocol: HTTPS
    - Property: `yarn.resourcemanager.webapp.https.address`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources:
      - [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
  - Admin RPC server   
    It is used by administrators and developers.
    - Port: 8033
    - Protocol: RPC
    - Property: `yarn.resourcemanager.admin.address`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources:
      - [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
  - Scheduler   
    It is used by administrators and developers.
    - Port: 8030
    - Protocol: RPC
    - Property: `yarn.resourcemanager.scheduler.address`
    - External access: no
    - Sources
      - [YARN default configuration](https://github.com/TOSIT-FR/hadoop/blob/5b1fa3e1aabb6bd350bf5dbd4f4e49578d94738f/hadoop-yarn-project/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/src/main/resources/yarn-default.xml)
- NodeManager
  - Container Manager   
    The address of the container manager in the NodeManager. Access is typically granted to admins, and Dev/Support teams.
    - Port: 0 (default for dynamic port allocation) or 45454 (static port by convention)
    - Protocol: RPC
    - Property: `yarn.nodemanager.address`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources
      - [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
  - Localizer   
    Address where the localizer IPC is. It is responsible for downloading and copying remote resources on the local filesystem.
    - Port: 8040
    - Protocol: RPC
    - Property: `yarn.nodemanager.localizer.address`
    - External access: no
    - Sources
      [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
  - HTTPS server   
    WebUI server of the NodeManager for administrator and developers.
    - Port: 8044
    - Protocol: HTTPS
    - Property: `yarn.nodemanager.webapp.https.address`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources
      - [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
  - ApplicationMaster   
    Ephemeral HTTPS port are open by each ApplicationMaster and cannot be restricted. The port are required to coordinates YARN tasks. They don't need to be accessible outside of the cluster. The YARN RessourceManager route the requests.
    - Port: large range
    - Protocol: HTTP
    - Property: ``
    - External access: no
- App Timeline Server
  - RPC server   
    This address for the timeline server to start the RPC server. It addresses the storage and retrieval of application’s current and historic information in a generic fashion.
    - Port: 10200
    - Protocol: RPC
    - Property: `yarn.timeline-service.address`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources
      - [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
  - HTTPS server   
    The web UI of the timeline server.
    - Port: 8190
    - Protocol: RPC
    - Property: `yarn.timeline-service.webapp.https.address`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources
      - [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)

## MapReduce Job History Server

- Job History RPC server   
  Server where client applications submit MapReduce jobs, `{FQDN}:{PORT}`.
  - Port: 10020
  - Protocol: RPC
  - Property: `mapreduce.jobhistory.address`
  - External access: yes
  - [MapReduce default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-mapreduce-client/hadoop-mapreduce-client-core/mapred-default.xml)
- Job History WebUI   
  The MapReduce JobHistory Server Web UI, `{FQDN}:{PORT}`. It is used by administrators and developers.
  - Port: 19890
  - Protocol: HTTPS
  - Property: `mapreduce.jobhistory.webapp.https.address`
  - External access: yes
  - Sources
    - [MapReduce default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-mapreduce-client/hadoop-mapreduce-client-core/mapred-default.xml)
- Shuffle Handler   
  - Default port that the ShuffleHandler will run on. ShuffleHandler is a service run at the NodeManager to facilitate transfers of intermediate Map outputs to requesting Reducers.
  - Port: 13562
  - Protocol: RPC
  - Property: `mapreduce.shuffle.port`
  - External access: no
  - Sources
    - [MapReduce default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-mapreduce-client/hadoop-mapreduce-client-core/mapred-default.xml)
- RPC admin server   
  The address of the History server admin interface.
  - Port: 10033
  - Protocol: RPC
  - Property: `mapreduce.jobhistory.admin.address`
  - External access: no
  - Sources:
    - [MapReduce default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-mapreduce-client/hadoop-mapreduce-client-core/mapred-default.xml)

## ZooKeeper

- Client connections   
  Server dedicated to client connections.
  - Port: 2181 (default by convention)
  - Protocol: RPC
  - Property: `clientPort` in `zoo.cfg` file
  - External access: yes
  - Sources:
    - [ZooKeeper Administrator's Guide](https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.4.6/zookeeperAdmin.html#sc_configuration)
- Leader server   
  Peers use the former port to connect to other peers, for example, to agree upon the order of updates. More specifically, a ZooKeeper server uses this port to connect followers to the leader.
  - Port: 2888 (default by convention)
  - Protocol: RPC
  - Property: `server.x:y:2888:3888` in `zoo.cfg` file
  - External access: no
  - Sources
    - [ZooKeeper Administrator's Guide](https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.4.6/zookeeperAdmin.html#sc_configuration)
- Leader election connections   
  Server connections used during the leader election phase.
  - Port: 3888  (default by convention)
  - Protocol: RPC
  - Property: `server.x:y:2888:3888` in `zoo.cfg` file
  - External access: no
  - Sources:
    - [ZooKeeper Administrator's Guide](https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.4.6/zookeeperAdmin.html#sc_configuration)

## Hive

- [Hive Metastore](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/hive/design#Design-Metastore)   
  Store metadata information to expose data storage into a relational model.
  - Port: 9083 
  - Protocol: RPC
  - Property: `hive.metastore.uris` and `hive.metastore.port`
  - External access: yes
  - Sources:
    - [Hive configuration properties](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/Configuration+Properties)
- [Hive Server 2](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/hive/setting+up+hiveserver2)   
  The JDBC/ODBC interface to the Hive Metastore.
  - Port: 10000 (in TCP) or 10001 (in HTTP)
  - Protocol: RPC
  - Property: `hive.server2.thrift.port`
  - External access: yes
  - [Source](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/Configuration+Properties)
- [Web User Interface (UI)](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/hive/setting+up+hiveserver2#SettingUpHiveServer2-WebUIforHiveServer2)   
  Port the the web UI to provides configuration, logging, metrics and active session information.
  - Port: 10002
  - Protocol: HTTPS
  - Property: `hive.server2.webui.port`
  - External access: yes
  - Sources:
    - [Hive configuration properties](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/Configuration+Properties)

## Ranger

- Policy Manager   
  Port for Ranger secured admin web UI.
  - Port: 6182
  - Protocol: HTTPS
  - Property: `ranger.service.https.port`
  - External access: yes
  - Sources:
    - [Ranger admin site template](https://github.com/TOSIT-FR/ranger/blob/4992a349905451939951c994b0bb18bd584f59a3/security-admin/scripts/ranger-admin-site-template.xml)

## Oozie

- Web UI   
  Port for the secured Oozie web UI.
  - Port: 11443
  - Protocol: HTTPS
  - Property: `OOZIE_HTTPS_PORT`
  - External access: yes
  - Sources
    - [Oozie installation guide](https://oozie.apache.org/docs/4.3.1/AG_Install.html)
- Admin   
  The admin port Oozie server runs. It may be opened externally if job submissions are accepted from outside the cluster.
  - Port: 11001
  - Protocol: HTTPS
  - Property: `OOZIE_ADMIN_PORT`
  - External access: no
  - Sources:
    - [Oozie installation guide](https://oozie.apache.org/docs/4.3.1/AG_Install.html)

## Knox

- Gateway   
  The port of Knox main gateway to internal cluster services.
  - Port: 8443
  - Protocol: HTTPS
  - Property: `gateway.port`
  - External access: yes
  - [Source](https://github.com/TOSIT-FR/knox/blob/v1.0.0-TDP/gateway-server/src/main/resources/conf/gateway-default.xml)

## Additionnal resources

- [CDH ports](https://docs.cloudera.com/documentation/enterprise/6/6.3/topics/cdh_ports.html)
- [CDP ports](https://docs.cloudera.com/cdp-private-cloud-base/7.1.7/installation/topics/cdpdc-ports-used-by-runtime.html)
- [HDFS default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
- [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
- [MapReduce default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-mapreduce-client/hadoop-mapreduce-client-core/mapred-default.xml)
- [HDFS should not default to ephemeral ports](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HDFS-9427)

Commit message:

docs: update ApplicationMaster ports details

docs/ports.md, after:



# Ports and protocols used by TDP

## System

- SSH
  - Port: 22
  - Protocol: SSH
  - External access:
    - All nodes for administrators and deployment scripts
    - Edges nodes for user access to a working pre-configured environment

## HDFS

- NameNode
  - HTTPS service   
    The namenode secure HTTP server address and port. It provides access to the HDFS web UI.
    - Port: 9871
    - Protocol: HTTPS
    - Property: `dfs.namenode.https-address`
    - External access: yes
    - [Source](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
  - RPC service   
    Main RPC port used by client to communicate with HDFS using a binary protocol. The port is embedded in the URI, eg `hdfs://nn1.domain.com:8020/`.
    - Port: 8020
    - Protocol: IPC
    - Property: `dfs.namenode.rpc-address`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources:
      - [HDFS default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
- ZKFC
  - RPC access   
    RPC port used by Zookeeper Failover Controller.
    - Port: 8019
    - Protocol: IPC
    - Property: `dfs.ha.zkfc.port`
    - External access: no
    - Sources:
      - [HDFS default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
- DataNode
  - Secure data transfert   
    The datanode server address and port for data transfer. The value depends on the usage of SASL to authenticate data transfer protocol instead of running the DataNode as root, learn more about [securing the DataNode](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/HADOOP/Secure+DataNode).
    - Port: 9866 (SASL based IPC, non-privileged port) or 1004 (privileged port) 
    - Protocol: IPC
    - Property: `dfs.datanode.address`
    - External access: no
    - Sources:
      - [Privileged port](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-common/SecureMode.html)
      - [Non-privilege port](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
      - [HDFS-9427- not default to ephemeral ports](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HDFS-9427)
  - HTTPS service   
    The datanode secure HTTP server address and port. It is used to access the status, logs, etc, and file data operations when using [WebHDFS](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/WebHDFS.html) or [HttpFS](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-hdfs-httpfs/index.html). The NameNode UI redirects the user to the DataNode server when browsing files.
    - Port: 9865
    - Protocol: HTTPS
    - Property: `dfs.datanode.https.address`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources:
      - [HDFS default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
  - RPC service   
    The DataNode RCP server address and port used for metadata information.
    - Port: 9867
    - Protocol: IPC
    - Property: `dfs.datanode.ipc.address`
    - External access: (requires Apache Knox) 
    - Sources:
      - [HDFS default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
      - [HDFS-9427 - not default to ephemeral ports](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HDFS-9427)
- JournalNode   
  - RPC server
    The JournalNode RPC server address and port.
    - Port: 8485
    - Protocol: IPC
    - Property: `dfs.journalnode.rpc-address`
    - External access: no
    - Sources:
      [HDFS default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
  - HTTPS server   
    The address and port the JournalNode HTTPS server listens on. If the port is 0 then the server will start on a free port.
    - Port: 8481
    - Protocol: HTTPS
    - Property: `dfs.journalnode.https-address`
    - External access: no
    - Sources:
      - [HDFS default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
## YARN

- ResourceManager
  - Ressource tracker   
    This is used by the Node Manager to register/nodeHeartbeat/unregister with the ResourceManager.
    - Port: 8031
    - Protocol: IPC
    - Property: `yarn.resourcemanager.resource-tracker.address`
    - External access: no
    - Sources:
      - [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
  - RPC server   
    The address of the applications manager interface in the RM. It is used to submit jobs. In YARN non HA configuration `yarn.resourcemanager.address` uses port 8050. In YARN HA configuration, `yarn.resourcemanager.address` is redundant and instead `yarn.resourcemanager.address.{id}` is resolved and uses port 8032.
    - Port: 8032
    - Protocol: IPC
    - Property: `yarn.resourcemanager.address.{id}`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources:
      - [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
      - [YARN HA port](https://community.cloudera.com/t5/Support-Questions/What-is-the-default-Yarn-resource-manager-port-Is-it-8032-or/td-p/138143)
  - HTTPS server   
    The HTTPS adddress of the RM web UI application. It is used to monitor applications.
    - Port: 8090
    - Protocol: HTTPS
    - Property: `yarn.resourcemanager.webapp.https.address`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources:
      - [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
  - Admin RPC server   
    It is used by administrators and developers.
    - Port: 8033
    - Protocol: RPC
    - Property: `yarn.resourcemanager.admin.address`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources:
      - [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
  - Scheduler   
    It is used by administrators and developers.
    - Port: 8030
    - Protocol: RPC
    - Property: `yarn.resourcemanager.scheduler.address`
    - External access: no
    - Sources
      - [YARN default configuration](https://github.com/TOSIT-FR/hadoop/blob/5b1fa3e1aabb6bd350bf5dbd4f4e49578d94738f/hadoop-yarn-project/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/src/main/resources/yarn-default.xml)
- NodeManager
  - Container Manager   
    The address of the container manager in the NodeManager. Access is typically granted to admins, and Dev/Support teams.
    - Port: 0 (default for dynamic port allocation) or 45454 (static port by convention)
    - Protocol: RPC
    - Property: `yarn.nodemanager.address`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources
      - [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
  - Localizer   
    Address where the localizer IPC is. It is responsible for downloading and copying remote resources on the local filesystem.
    - Port: 8040
    - Protocol: RPC
    - Property: `yarn.nodemanager.localizer.address`
    - External access: no
    - Sources
      [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
  - HTTPS server   
    WebUI server of the NodeManager for administrator and developers.
    - Port: 8044
    - Protocol: HTTPS
    - Property: `yarn.nodemanager.webapp.https.address`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources
      - [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
  - ApplicationMaster   
    Ephemeral HTTPS port are open by each ApplicationMaster. The tdp-collection default range is 40000-50000 but is parameterised in the `tdp_var_defaults/hadoop/hadoop.yml` `yarn.app.mapreduce.am.job.client.port-range` property.These ports are required to coordinates YARN tasks. They don't need to be accessible outside of the cluster but can can be if the permitted by the network firewall. The YARN ResourceManager route the requests. *Note that this configuration on holds true for mapreduce jobs, not spark*.
    - Port: 40000-50000
    - Protocol: HTTP
    - Property: ``
    - External access: no
- App Timeline Server
  - RPC server   
    This address for the timeline server to start the RPC server. It addresses the storage and retrieval of application’s current and historic information in a generic fashion.
    - Port: 10200
    - Protocol: RPC
    - Property: `yarn.timeline-service.address`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources
      - [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
  - HTTPS server   
    The web UI of the timeline server.
    - Port: 8190
    - Protocol: RPC
    - Property: `yarn.timeline-service.webapp.https.address`
    - External access: yes
    - Sources
      - [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)

## MapReduce Job History Server

- Job History RPC server   
  Server where client applications submit MapReduce jobs, `{FQDN}:{PORT}`.
  - Port: 10020
  - Protocol: RPC
  - Property: `mapreduce.jobhistory.address`
  - External access: yes
  - [MapReduce default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-mapreduce-client/hadoop-mapreduce-client-core/mapred-default.xml)
- Job History WebUI   
  The MapReduce JobHistory Server Web UI, `{FQDN}:{PORT}`. It is used by administrators and developers.
  - Port: 19890
  - Protocol: HTTPS
  - Property: `mapreduce.jobhistory.webapp.https.address`
  - External access: yes
  - Sources
    - [MapReduce default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-mapreduce-client/hadoop-mapreduce-client-core/mapred-default.xml)
- Shuffle Handler   
  - Default port that the ShuffleHandler will run on. ShuffleHandler is a service run at the NodeManager to facilitate transfers of intermediate Map outputs to requesting Reducers.
  - Port: 13562
  - Protocol: RPC
  - Property: `mapreduce.shuffle.port`
  - External access: no
  - Sources
    - [MapReduce default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-mapreduce-client/hadoop-mapreduce-client-core/mapred-default.xml)
- RPC admin server   
  The address of the History server admin interface.
  - Port: 10033
  - Protocol: RPC
  - Property: `mapreduce.jobhistory.admin.address`
  - External access: no
  - Sources:
    - [MapReduce default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-mapreduce-client/hadoop-mapreduce-client-core/mapred-default.xml)

## ZooKeeper

- Client connections   
  Server dedicated to client connections.
  - Port: 2181 (default by convention)
  - Protocol: RPC
  - Property: `clientPort` in `zoo.cfg` file
  - External access: yes
  - Sources:
    - [ZooKeeper Administrator's Guide](https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.4.6/zookeeperAdmin.html#sc_configuration)
- Leader server   
  Peers use the former port to connect to other peers, for example, to agree upon the order of updates. More specifically, a ZooKeeper server uses this port to connect followers to the leader.
  - Port: 2888 (default by convention)
  - Protocol: RPC
  - Property: `server.x:y:2888:3888` in `zoo.cfg` file
  - External access: no
  - Sources
    - [ZooKeeper Administrator's Guide](https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.4.6/zookeeperAdmin.html#sc_configuration)
- Leader election connections   
  Server connections used during the leader election phase.
  - Port: 3888  (default by convention)
  - Protocol: RPC
  - Property: `server.x:y:2888:3888` in `zoo.cfg` file
  - External access: no
  - Sources:
    - [ZooKeeper Administrator's Guide](https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.4.6/zookeeperAdmin.html#sc_configuration)

## Hive

- [Hive Metastore](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/hive/design#Design-Metastore)   
  Store metadata information to expose data storage into a relational model.
  - Port: 9083 
  - Protocol: RPC
  - Property: `hive.metastore.uris` and `hive.metastore.port`
  - External access: yes
  - Sources:
    - [Hive configuration properties](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/Configuration+Properties)
- [Hive Server 2](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/hive/setting+up+hiveserver2)   
  The JDBC/ODBC interface to the Hive Metastore.
  - Port: 10000 (in TCP) or 10001 (in HTTP)
  - Protocol: RPC
  - Property: `hive.server2.thrift.port`
  - External access: yes
  - [Source](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/Configuration+Properties)
- [Web User Interface (UI)](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/hive/setting+up+hiveserver2#SettingUpHiveServer2-WebUIforHiveServer2)   
  Port the the web UI to provides configuration, logging, metrics and active session information.
  - Port: 10002
  - Protocol: HTTPS
  - Property: `hive.server2.webui.port`
  - External access: yes
  - Sources:
    - [Hive configuration properties](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/Configuration+Properties)

## Ranger

- Policy Manager   
  Port for Ranger secured admin web UI.
  - Port: 6182
  - Protocol: HTTPS
  - Property: `ranger.service.https.port`
  - External access: yes
  - Sources:
    - [Ranger admin site template](https://github.com/TOSIT-FR/ranger/blob/4992a349905451939951c994b0bb18bd584f59a3/security-admin/scripts/ranger-admin-site-template.xml)

## Oozie

- Web UI   
  Port for the secured Oozie web UI.
  - Port: 11443
  - Protocol: HTTPS
  - Property: `OOZIE_HTTPS_PORT`
  - External access: yes
  - Sources
    - [Oozie installation guide](https://oozie.apache.org/docs/4.3.1/AG_Install.html)
- Admin   
  The admin port Oozie server runs. It may be opened externally if job submissions are accepted from outside the cluster.
  - Port: 11001
  - Protocol: HTTPS
  - Property: `OOZIE_ADMIN_PORT`
  - External access: no
  - Sources:
    - [Oozie installation guide](https://oozie.apache.org/docs/4.3.1/AG_Install.html)

## Knox

- Gateway   
  The port of Knox main gateway to internal cluster services.
  - Port: 8443
  - Protocol: HTTPS
  - Property: `gateway.port`
  - External access: yes
  - [Source](https://github.com/TOSIT-FR/knox/blob/v1.0.0-TDP/gateway-server/src/main/resources/conf/gateway-default.xml)

## Additionnal resources

- [CDH ports](https://docs.cloudera.com/documentation/enterprise/6/6.3/topics/cdh_ports.html)
- [CDP ports](https://docs.cloudera.com/cdp-private-cloud-base/7.1.7/installation/topics/cdpdc-ports-used-by-runtime.html)
- [HDFS default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/hdfs-default.xml)
- [YARN default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-yarn/hadoop-yarn-common/yarn-default.xml)
- [MapReduce default configuration](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-mapreduce-client/hadoop-mapreduce-client-core/mapred-default.xml)
- [HDFS should not default to ephemeral ports](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HDFS-9427)
